# A.thaliana-climatic-zones_app

The provided code for the shiny app was used as additional tool for the study, where our student group was identifying  genomic variations of the plant A. thaliana populations, exploring the influence of regional factors on stress-responsive gene distributions by comparing populations from Spain located within the Mediterranean sub-climate, the United Kingdom representing the Atlantic sub-region and Sweden accounting for the Boreal sub-climate.

## Genomic data acquisition:

We used 120 randomly picked accessions of A. thaliana each from Spain, the UK, and Sweden, that were obtained from the 1001 Genome Project Consortium (http://1001genomes.org/data- center.html). The accessions were genotyped at single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The accessions were selected to have the same ancestral population ("spain" for Spain, "western_europe" for UK and "north_sweden" for Sweden). Accessions were specifically chosen from regions within each country that experience diverse climatic conditions. Emphasis was placed on geographic locations with distinct temperature profiles, varying levels of drought stress, and potential differences in UV radiation exposure.

## Climate data acquisition
We used WorldClim2 (Fick and Hijmans, 2017), a database of environmental data which is used in most of the analyses of climate aimed at describing the local environment of A. thaliana accessions. WorldClim is a series of data layers of precipitation and temperature variables interpolated from

We obtained a collection of different geoclimatic variables covering a wide array of atmospheric, climatic and soil environmental conditions. WorldClim data to 30 second (~1 km2) spatial resolution was. The following variables were downloaded: mean monthly minimum, mean and maximum temperatures and mean monthly precipitation, etc. The data will be extracted using the different R packages for further analysis of the environmental conditions prevailing at each of the chosen georeferenced accession collection sites from the 1001 Genomes Project.
We make available an interactive tool, produced using the “shiny” (Chang, W. et al., 2017) and “leaflet” (Cheng, J. et al., 2017) packages in R, to visualize co-association of the climatic variables. This allows users to extract the co-association among the 19 environmental variables, as well as longitude, latitude and country.
This tool allows study of the local environment for each of the 120 accessions as part of the 1001 Genomes Project, as described by the 19 environmental variables codified in this study. Data points represent the sites of collection of sequenced accessions in an interactive world map. Our tool allows the inspection of each accession and related to it climatic variables simultaneously. The user can first choose an environmental variable and its value and that is the respective accession displays on the map specifying the rest related climatic variables for this data point. Clicking on any of the data points on the map provides information on the selected accession, and the value of the chosen environmental variable for the selected accession.
